Code Book

The "UCI HAR Dataset" contains data on volunteers' physical activity recorded through wearing a smartphone on their wrists. It can be downloaded with the link given in the coursework page. 

After downloading the file, extract it and the following files are read into tables using the "read.table()" function:

feature.txt
activity_labels.txt
subject_test.txt
x_test.txt
y_test_txt
subject_train.txt
X_train.txt
y_train.txt

Afterwards, the "run_analysis.R" code is used to tidy the data:

1. Merging the training and test data sets

"x" is created using the rbind() function to merge x_train and x_test data.
"y" is created using the rbind() function to merge y_train and y_test data.
"Subject" is created using the rbind() function to merge subject_train and subject_test data.
"MergedData" is created the cbind() function to merge all three preceding data mentioned above.

2. Extracting only the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.

"TidyData" is created through subsetting "MergedData". We use the "select()" function to subset subject, code as well as the mean and standard deviation measurements for each of the measurement provided.

3. Naming activities code with descriptive names

We replace the "code" column in "TidyData" with the corresponding activity provided in the "activities" variable.

4. Renaming the data set with descriptive names

We replace all "Acc" from the column's name into "Accelerometer", "Gyro" into "Gyroscope", "BodyBody" into "Body", "Mag" into "Magnitude". 
Also, the "code" column is renamed as "activities" while colums that start with character "f" is replaced by "Frequency" and columns that start with character "t" is replaced with "Time".

5. Creating another data from No.4 containing only the average of each variable for each activity and subject.

"Q5Data" is created by summarizing "TidyData" and taking the means of each variable for each activity and subject. "Q5Data" is saved as a txt file with name "Q5Data.txt".
